Now, that we've talked about the Kafka Connect API,
we're going to actually dive in and see how it works.
So we're going to take a look at the management and metadata API to start.
So I have the confluent documentation pulled up.
I'm going to walk you through,
listing connector plugins and getting some basic broker details,
but I wanted to show you that this documentation exists.
I also linked to this,
not just in this section but also in
the following sections where we're using Kafka Connect.
It's best to refer to this documentation as you're working
with the Kafka API because to be frank,
there are a lot of options to keep in your head.
So as a best practice,
make sure to refer to the documentation as you're working with the API.
So in this demonstration, we're going to walk through making a couple of curls.
So if you're not familiar with curl,
this is just a simple command line tool for making HTTP requests.
So we're going to go ahead and use these commands to see how it works.
So first off, Kafka Connect is running at localhost 8083 in my workspace,
it will also be running at localhost 8083 in your workspace.
So before we do anything,
why don't we just go ahead and curl it at that URL and see what happens.
As you can see, it sends us back what version it is.
So this version of Kafka Connect is
2.11 and it even tells us the specific git commit that it was built at.
Now, this information isn't extraordinarily useful to
us but it does confirm that at least Kafka Connect is up and running.
Now that we've done that, let's actually go ahead and
curl the Kafka Connect cluster one more time and ask it which plugins are loaded.
If I run this, it's going to print out nice and messy.
So let's do that.
I'm going to show you why you want to use that last bit there about Python -m json.tool.
So this is really hard to read.
As a human being, this just looks like basically a soup of characters,
and numbers, and things that are hard to comprehend.
So I wanted to teach you
a real quick trick when you're working with things on the command line.
There's a tool called JQ which isn't in
your workspace but you can use on your own machine if you'd like,
but alternatively, you can actually use Python to format this output nicely.
So that was a JSON string.
So if we want to print that out cleanly,
we can use a pipe and your Python -m json.tool,
and this will feed the output of this command
into this JSON format and print it out nice and clean.
So now, we can actually read what was printed out.
This is a little bit easier on the eyes.
So what you can see here,
is that we've gotten back a list of connectors that are loaded
in to our Kafka Connect cluster.
You have an active MQ source, elastic search, hdfs,
jdbc for interacting with SQL data stores,
as well as a number of other useful file sources and syncs, as well as S3.
So let's exit out of single document mode.
Now that we've viewed the actual connector plug-ins that are available,
we're going to move on and actually create a connector.
The point of this lesson, is just to get familiar with the API.
So we're not going to go into the details of how we configure this connector,
we're simply going to show that we can post to
this connector's URL with a specific data config to create a connector.
So we're going to go ahead and copy
this command and we're going to go ahead and hit "Enter".
You can see that we've successfully created this connector named first connector.
Again, you can see the name up here, "First connector".
Now, that we've created that,
we can go ahead and get the status of
that connector by curling our Kafka Connect cluster once more.
So we're going to say, connectors/first-connector,
just to see that the data's there.
So I'm going to go back to single document mode and we can see that it exists.
In fact, I'm going to actually do that again with the Python tool.
So it's a little bit cleaner and we can see that our connector exists,
then it has tasks,
and that they're config is located here as well.
We also have a type of source.
The alternative, we could also have the type of sync.
Now, that we've done that, we can also see the status of the actual running tasks,
and you can see that we have a connector that it's running and then
there's also a task that is working under this connector, that's also running.
Now, I could pause this connector if I wanted to by pulling it against this API.
So I'm going to change the method and so being a get to be a put on this connector.
So then if we go back and ask for the status,
we can now see that our connector is paused as is the underlying task.
If I wanted to restart it,
I could go back and simply tell it to restart.
The only thing that we didn't do here is,
unfortunately when we restart,
it's a post not a put.
So I'm going to go back to the front and changed the rest verbs from a put to a post.
All right, now that we've done that, let's continue along.
So we've listed connectors,
we've detailed the connectors,
we've paused, and we've restarted.
Finally, let's see how we can delete connectors.
So we can take this URL and we can write curl -X deletes.
Now, we're using the delete rest verb.
Delete localhost 8083 first connector.
Now if we go back and try to list our connectors again,
we'll see that there's nothing listed,
and we get back an empty list.